So, I am just gonna look at my screen
Anyways, so, I am here to talk about harnessing the awesome power of streems
uh, streams are I think the most underused part of Node
and they are what makes Node and JavaScript in general really really amazing
So, back in the sixties, uh, sort of this recurring trope
No, I can't, shut up!
So, back in the sixties, this, this guy, Doug..., actual "I" can't make vigor
this guy, Doug McIlroy
uh, was like kind of , uh, like, put his folder on the ground,
whatever that is and said:
No, Unix is gonna have Streams and I am gonna fucking quit if doesn't
And that's awesome, so, we have Streams now, because of this crazy guy
uh, but basicly Streams let you treat programs as just little pieces
little pieces like garden hoses that you can just plumb together
I think plumbing metaphor a really apt for lot of this staff
So, the first kind of Streams that we have is readable Stream
And so, readable Streams are just event vendors that made a data event and an end event
Maybe some other one, those aren't important
uh, so, we can write a readable stream here
vi start.js(explain: It seams like opening a file with vi editor)
Ok, so, first thing you do, uh, you've probably seen this before
uh, we fs.createReadStream and we can just like
here I've got dictionary of like hundred thousand words
uh, and I can just pipe this just like in Unix was pipe stderr to stdout
And if I run this, uh, cool, so I get light all of the words printed just on stdout
What's really cool about Streams is you don't you know buffer the whole thing
into memory first. You just can incrementally output every single piece
uh, in the stream and that's really cool because you get results like immediately
And, Let you write a lot of really interesting abstractions in the some other things
like  if you don't want stream to give up writing to stdout you do that about
uh, so, to write a stream like without just using a stream, it's a little bit more complicated
uh, the first you do for readable stream, and these little changes,
so don't worry about memorizing all this.
The first thing you do is you set readable to true, the attribute
uh, it's all here. I've got just this example, it just emits the data event
and (the data) just has counter
So, if you run that, ah, ah, ah, 5.js
Cool, so in the very bottom down there, you can see this infinite string of digits
It's getting faster and faster, cuz, there are more digits and real numbers
But, uh, if we want to say end that after uh, after two seconds,
we can just emit an end event.
So, one, two and it's done!
Cool, so, what's really cool I mean besides the fact
we can just pipe things around, uh.
We can actually also create writable stream since scratch
So, like you probably, my hopefully, have seen this
in Node if you used Node a lot
fs.createWriteStream, it's awesome, because
all you have to do is just write data to it
and it has been in a file, so you don't have to like
have a big stream or big buffer like concat all these
messages one by one on to some growing thing
You can just, uh, well, so I run this program and I
cat output.txt
oh, cool, I have the same output as in my file
uh, so another cool thing you can do is you can take
readable streams like process.stdin as a standard readable streams
and pipe them to your writable stream
So, if I run this program which is 2(.js)
then , abc, def, and we'll cat output.txt
and see that it's exactly what we typed,
so that's as we might expect
So, creating these writable streams since scratch
is a bit more complicated
so, the first thing we do is set writable to true
this is used by pipe internally to make it,
so that we can process.stdin.pipe to writable stream
So we said a writable stream and we set an end function
and of course you have to be a little more careful in Node
cuz, it is just of convention, or you can call
.end with an object
And that we'll call .write, so that's just one thing
to be a little careful of
But if you use some libraries that problem goes away
So, if we run this program, we can do a similar kind
of thing and here it's just log in all of the values
that I am typing
uh, if I end this stream, I get a handy little end message
that accesses a mention point
Triple cool! So, we can actually do something useful here
this custom writable stream.
How about let's just count all the bytes and when the stream
ends, we just print that out to stdout
So here write, you now have byte equal zero and call sequals
the buf.length ever time, at the end, I print byte count message
So, if I run this program, abc, def, and now I end it,
and byte counts 8 which make sense because three and a new line is 4,
and 4 is 8, cool!
So, that's writable stream.
The next thing that I think is super important, to be realized is
this is an idea(a concept) I treat from Domnita who will be a
recurring theme draft the sock
It's called the through stream, so through stream is a readable
wirtable stream
It's not the only kind of the readable writable stream, but it does
as a readable writable stream that acts like a filter
So, for instance, the grep program in Unix, you know,
takes stdin and does some things and write stdout
it's like from here to there
So, we can make on these. If we create a new stream and we set
both readable readable and writable to true
Combining the previous two examples
we can have a write stream but we can also emit data
and this is really cool, so, right here, I am uh just
uppercasing the input that I get to make a loud stream
It'll be very loud for us, I did the same thing with the end
And I'll pipe stdin to my ts, which should actually
be called loud stream, like ls
So, that is 3.js, abc, hello lisboa and now end it
Oh, no, alright, I forgot to pipe that
right, before, I had this, so, actually, I have to
pipe the output somewhere for one to use it
So I got 4.js and I'll say: beep boop and end it
and we get uppercase messages
Great, indeed, this is the through stream
Alright, and this was writable stream and this is through stream
This is a kind of picture I drew to illustrate what's going on
So you have a function in the middle and you have thought these
two little convertible machines that do the things
The next kind of thing that I think is important to talk about
is: pause stream
Pause stream is a sort of through stream
well, in Node, there is a mechanism in pipe internally that
helps you handle back nature
You call .pause and resume when you want to start it again
a sort of like barrier a few green water and then you turn on
the tap to get new something
Plumbing plumbing metaphors there if useful
So, I have an example for a pause stream
Here we can look at it
So, this is an http server that creates this output.txt file
with all of the content that we put out here
So, I am gonna echo beep boop and I'll curl that and finally
run this program
So, node 0.js and this program I'll curl -sSNT- localhost:3000
and so, told me ok
And now it should have written using the writable stream to output.txt
So, we cat that out, oh, cool, we see our message
super great, but, suppose our requirements change in this program
so, maybe we have to make a directory before we can actually
put the data somewhere
so, we have to call fs.mkdir with like a random id
so, it will take this code to generate id and we'll
put fs.mkdir on that
ok, this seems we work through,right?
woo, see, the same thing and instead of telling res.end('ok')
we write res.end with the id
so, it should tell us, Oops, and I need to write the right file
node 2.js, correct!
ok, so node 2.js, ok, cool, so now gives this the id
and it should be in data directory and output.txt file
Holy crappy, it's empty! what's going on here?
Let's just try that again, maybe, maybe it works this time
uh, ok, so, we can cat out that, ok, so that time works!
that's a little weird.
uh, it wasn't an accident. There is some risk condition in this code.
we are calling fs.mkdir and then we are piping to a writable stream
so, you know, you can get in the case where you know data events
have come in before our callback fires of the fs.mkdir
how do we get around this? Pause stream of course
If we alter a clutter a little bit, to do...
alright, so, we required of course first, it's called pause-stream
on NPM
alright, and so, we make one and we'll pause it
and then, instead of piping our request to the ws object
we will pipe it..., ok, ps.pipe, let me just jump the last worked on
ok, so we pipe a pause stream instead of the write stream
and it's pausing and then, at the end, we call resume to resume it
once the callback is actually fired
not like eventually, you know, maybe some data is passed, maybe not
now we actually resume it. pause stream will buffer the data for us
so, if we take our existing example and run updated version
and we curl to it
so, cat out this output, make sure ok, work that time
so, you might notice this prints out the id
so, we can actually cat data, do some like
Unix aggregator there output.txt
ok, so now it's catting the file that is the outputs
and now, as you can see, every single time,
we get the correct output
we just eliminate that risk condition where we get data with pause stream
pause stream is great
so, Oops, the next thing is duplex streams
duplex streams are also readable writable stream
but, duplex streams are really cool because they
are like a telephone you know
it's not just a filter like grep like through stream
but it's like a sort of conversation
you have site A talks to site B, but then site B needs
like talk back to site A
and sort of these circular ongoing communication
if you see, a.pipe(b).pipe(a) or something like that
you probably, you most definitely have a duplex stream
so, and uh, there's sweet module called duplexer that was
actually taking out of the module called event-stream
that let you take like readable stream and writable stream
and like smooch them together into a duplex stream
duplex streams are sort of like the voltron of streams
in that respect